Article about "tags" (#43)
dcb-events/dcb-events.github.io: docs/topics/tags.md

# Tags: The Key to Flexible Event Correlation

> When we published this website, the reception was largely positive. The concept of Dynamic Consistency Boundaries resonated with developers who had struggled with the rigid limitations of traditional Aggregate patterns. However, one aspect of the proposal sparked considerable debate and misunderstanding: the notion of **tags**.

Author: rewrite to be less blog-posty

> When we published this website, the reception was largely positive. The concept of Dynamic Consistency Boundaries resonated with developers who had struggled with the rigid limitations of traditional Aggregate patterns. However, one aspect of the proposal sparked considerable debate and misunderstanding: the notion of **tags**.

Author: ```suggestion
The concept of Dynamic Consistency Boundaries resonated with developers who had struggled with the rigid limitations of traditional Aggregate patterns. One area that deserves some additional clarification is the notion of **tags**.
```

> When we published this website, the reception was largely positive. The concept of Dynamic Consistency Boundaries resonated with developers who had struggled with the rigid limitations of traditional Aggregate patterns. However, one aspect of the proposal sparked considerable debate and misunderstanding: the notion of **tags**.

Author: ```suggestion
The concept of Dynamic Consistency Boundaries resonated with developers who had struggled with the rigid limitations of traditional Aggregate patterns. One area that deserves some additional clarification is the notion of **tags**.
```

## Alternative Approaches and Their Shortcomings

One might wonder: couldn't we solve this with a query language that filters events by their payload properties?
This is certainly possible and some Event Stores already offer this possibility.

But it introduces some challenges:

### Opaque Event Payloads

The event payload should remain opaque to the Event Store. It could even be stored in binary format for efficiency or encrypted security/privacy reasons. Requiring the Event Store to parse and understand payload structure violates this principle.

### Complexity Overhead

A query language introduces substantial complexity on both the implementation and usage sides. Event Store implementations become more complex, and developers must learn and maintain knowledge of yet another query syntax.

### Performance Challenges

Dynamic queries against schema-less events make it extremely difficult to create performant implementations. Without predictable query patterns, the Event Store cannot optimize indexes or data structures effectively.

### Partitioning Impossibility

> Dynamic payload-based queries make it nearly impossible to partition events across multiple nodes. While partitioning with multiple tags isn't trivial, it's certainly more achievable than with arbitrary query expressions.

Author: I'll remove that part!
